README.md, before:

# Migraine RAG Assistant for Teens

This project provides a full-stack reference implementation of a migraine-focused virtual assistant designed for teenagers. It offers account registration, login, and a chat interface that retrieves migraine education snippets and forwards them to an LLM using a lightweight Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) workflow.

## Project structure

```
.
├── backend/        # FastAPI application, database models, and RAG pipeline
└── frontend/       # Vite + React single-page application
```

## Backend

### Features

- **Authentication** – Register and sign in with email/password credentials. Passwords are hashed using bcrypt and tokens are issued as JWTs.
- **Chat endpoint** – Authenticated users can submit migraine care questions. The server retrieves relevant passages from curated content and forwards them to an LLM helper.
- **Knowledge base** – A starter dataset (`backend/data/migraine_articles.json`) supplies the domain context for RAG.

### Setup

```bash
# from the repository root
./scripts/setup_venv.sh
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `.venv\\Scripts\\activate`
uvicorn backend.app.main:app --reload
```

Environment variables:

- `JWT_SECRET` – secret key for signing JWT tokens (defaults to a development-safe string).
- `OPENAI_API_KEY` – optional OpenAI key to enable live LLM calls. Without it, the server returns a context summary and safety reminder.
- `LLM_MODEL` – optional model name when using OpenAI (defaults to `gpt-3.5-turbo`).
- `CORS_ORIGINS` – comma-separated list of allowed web origins (defaults to `http://localhost:5173`).

## Frontend

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

The React SPA includes registration, login, and a chat page inspired by modern AI assistants. It automatically attaches JWT tokens to chat requests and displays the retrieved migraine passages next to the conversation.

## Development notes

- The RAG pipeline uses TF–IDF similarity (via scikit-learn) over the bundled migraine knowledge base. For production, replace this with a vector database and clinically validated content.
- The backend persists users and chat transcripts in a SQLite database (`backend/app.db`). Remove `app.db` to reset the environment.
- When running locally, start the backend on port 8000 and the frontend on port 5173. The Vite dev server proxies `/auth` and `/chat` requests to the FastAPI service.

Commit message:

Add dev server helper that auto-selects available port

README.md, after:

# Migraine RAG Assistant for Teens

This project provides a full-stack reference implementation of a migraine-focused virtual assistant designed for teenagers. It offers account registration, login, and a chat interface that retrieves migraine education snippets and forwards them to an LLM using a lightweight Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) workflow.

## Project structure

```
.
├── backend/        # FastAPI application, database models, and RAG pipeline
└── frontend/       # Vite + React single-page application
```

## Backend

### Features

- **Authentication** – Register and sign in with email/password credentials. Passwords are hashed using bcrypt and tokens are issued as JWTs.
- **Chat endpoint** – Authenticated users can submit migraine care questions. The server retrieves relevant passages from curated content and forwards them to an LLM helper.
- **Knowledge base** – A starter dataset (`backend/data/migraine_articles.json`) supplies the domain context for RAG.

### Setup

```bash
# from the repository root
./scripts/setup_venv.sh
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `.venv\\Scripts\\activate`
python -m backend.app.server
```

Environment variables:

- `JWT_SECRET` – secret key for signing JWT tokens (defaults to a development-safe string).
- `OPENAI_API_KEY` – optional OpenAI key to enable live LLM calls. Without it, the server returns a context summary and safety reminder.
- `LLM_MODEL` – optional model name when using OpenAI (defaults to `gpt-3.5-turbo`).
- `CORS_ORIGINS` – comma-separated list of allowed web origins (defaults to `http://localhost:5173`).

## Frontend

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

The React SPA includes registration, login, and a chat page inspired by modern AI assistants. It automatically attaches JWT tokens to chat requests and displays the retrieved migraine passages next to the conversation.

## Development notes

- The RAG pipeline uses TF–IDF similarity (via scikit-learn) over the bundled migraine knowledge base. For production, replace this with a vector database and clinically validated content.
- The backend persists users and chat transcripts in a SQLite database (`backend/app.db`). Remove `app.db` to reset the environment.
- When running locally, the backend development helper will automatically pick port 8000 (or the next free port if 8000 is occupied) and the frontend runs on port 5173. Override the backend target for the Vite dev server by setting `VITE_BACKEND_URL` if you need to point to a different address.
